So, we'd like to discuss the question, what made Paul a chosen vessel, and how can we imitate him?
Now, in his way to Damascus, Saul, the relentless persecutor of Christians, was struck with blindness.
And when the disciple Ananias was told to go heal him, he wondered out loud, why heal this enemy who has been ravaging the Christian congregations?
Well, Jesus' answer shocked Ananias, go, because this man is a chosen vessel to me.
Now, what made Paul, Saul or later Paul, a chosen vessel to Jesus, was it his incredible knowledge of the Hebrew Scriptures, or his burning zeal for God?
Well, these were no doubt factors, but we would like to discuss qualities of Paul that we can imitate.
And the first one we will discuss is his flexible, reasonable approach to his ministry, and the second one, his open, effective communication style.
So, first let's discuss his flexibility and reasonableness. Saul was not by nature a flexible person.
He said about his persecution of Christians at Acts 26-11, I was extremely furious against them, and the word he used can refer to anger so great that it resembled madness or insanity.
And at 1 Timothy 113 he called himself an insolent man, and that word insolent has been defined as one who acts injuriously out of arrogant contempt of others.
So certainly it doesn't sound flexible. His transformation must have involved much heart searching, perhaps during the time he was in Arabia and the years in Tarsus before his first missionary journey.
He had time to meditate on the harsh reality of who he had been, a stubborn, unreasonable enemy of Jesus.
It was painful, but Paul allowed God to mold him from a furious, insolent man into a chosen vessel who became gentle as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children.
This molding by Jehovah taught Paul to be flexible, reasonable, and realistic.
He learned that even the best-made plans, like his carefully orchestrated trip to Damascus with letters in hand from the high priest, could be thwarted.
And so later he told the Thessalonians that twice he tried to visit them, but Satan cut across his path.
And apparently this wasn't a minor obstacle because the verb cut across could refer to a deep trench made in a road to stop an opposing army from advancing and making the road impossible.
Then at Acts 16, 6 through 10, Paul didn't insist on his original itinerary when Holy Spirit guided him in a different direction.
In other words, he didn't stubbornly pound on closed doors when there were open doors available to him.
So when Paul was forced to wait in Athens, he used that waiting time as an opportunity to change the lives of some Athenians and to start a congregation there eventually.
And even when in prison in Rome and in Philippi, he focused on sharing the good news and strengthening the brothers.
And that's what today's text highlights.
Despite disruptions, he stayed focused on his ministry.
And some of those disruptions involved disappointments in other people.
For example, he told Timothy that Demes and all the men in the province of Asia had abandoned him.
But his disappointment in some didn't make him suspicious or distrustful of others.
So he kept training and working with others like Timothy, Luke and Titus and many others mentioned in his letters.
He was also willing to adjust his view of Mark, who at one time disappointed him so much that Paul refused to take Mark along on a missionary tour.
But later, Paul told Timothy to bring Mark because he was helpful in his ministry.
So it's clear that Paul allowed Jehovah to shape his thinking and turn him into a vessel that was flexible and reasonable.
To imitate Paul, we also need to be prepared to change course.
The disruptions we experienced during the pandemic may prove to be very minor compared to future changes that need to be made.
So we need to be prepared for that.
And also disappointments are part of life in this world.
Fellow workers will frustrate us and sometimes even hurt us.
But rather than withdrawing and brooding, we do as Paul said, we put up with one another in love for the sake of accomplishing our ministry.
And responsible brothers have to continue delegating even when some brothers don't measure up to what we expected.
Second, how can we imitate Paul as an effective communicator?
One reference said about the word vessel in chosen vessel.
It commonly denotes a cup or basin but can refer to any instrument which may be used to accomplish a purpose, perhaps particularly with the notion of conveying or communicating.
Jesus used this chosen vessel mightily to communicate inspired direction to the congregations in the first century and we still benefit from that guidance today.
Now Paul knew that honest communication was a matter of life and death spiritually speaking.
And that's why he told the Ephesian elders that he didn't hold back from telling them all the counsel of God.
But when we consider Paul's letters, we see that along with that guidance he opened his heart to the brothers.
He confided in them not only of his love and commendation for them but also his own personal feelings, his fears, his remorse, even his own weaknesses.
He wrote to the Romans, when I wish to do what is right, what is bad is present with me.
He put it in the first person, miserable man that I am.
Those words have helped countless servants of God to keep going after some failure.
His humility and openness promoted mutual trust and made him beloved.
Paul, as we read in his letters, gave straightforward counsel but he was also very sensitive on how that counsel was received and that's a vital aspect of good communication.
For example, after he wrote a very strong first letter to the Corinthians, he sent Titus to them in part to find out how they had reacted to that letter.
He recognized that some matters might not be fully understood with just one communication.
Now to imitate Paul, we make it a point to express our affection and also commendation to those we love, especially our brothers.
We don't make them guess at how we feel about them.
Also, we admit our own shortcomings, which makes it easier to express our concerns and also to give counsel when needed.
And after a frank discussion with a fellow worker, we often need to follow up, like Paul, to make sure that our intent and our words were not misunderstood.
Now, after discussing these qualities of Paul, aren't we reminded of how the faithful slave takes the lead today?
Like Paul's communications, the spiritual food we receive is filled not only with guidance and counsel, but also with honest expressions in videos, including videos from the governing body, study articles, and life stories.
Consider the comments from Carl Klein's life story that reminds us so much of Paul's words at Romans chapter 7.
He said, I am thankful to Jehovah that when I was spiritually weak, the opportunity for yielding to temptation did not lie close at hand.
And that when I did, I was spiritually strong enough not to yield.
And then he concluded for Jehovah knew that at heart, I really wanted to keep doing the right thing.
These humble, candid comments from one who served as a member of the governing body have encouraged countless brothers and sisters around the earth.
And regarding flexibility and reasonableness, think about how the faithful slave adjusted our approach to our ministry and the meetings almost overnight during the pandemic.
There was no hint of frustration over closed doors, what we couldn't do, just a realistic and pragmatic approach focusing on the doors that were still open to God's people.
Clearly, God's spirit has energized the faithful slave just as it did Paul to advance the good news despite challenging circumstances.
So may we all do, as Paul says at 1 Corinthians 111, be imitators of him that chosen vessel just as he was of Christ.